---
layout: "post"
title: "7"
---

I'm starting a new writing project. I've always enjoyed writing. I'd like to get better. So I'm going to try to start writing regularly. Hopefully once a week.

---

# Elementary School

This is an assortment of things that I remember from the years before I started Junior High School. Counting backwards from when I turned 18 (12th grade), I would have turned 11 in 5th grade.

## Bike

When I was about 7, I learned to ride my bike. Actually, I just made up the number 7. It was before I turned 7, because when I was 7 we moved. And I definitely learned to ride my bike before we moved.

What I remember about learning to ride my bike is riding down the hill that we lived on. The hill was pretty fun. The slope was enough that there was a huge cliff between our yard and the neighbor's driveway. Well, maybe that's an exaggeration. But remember, we only lived there until I was 7, so it only had to drop about 1-2 feet to feel like a cliff. My brother and I honed our cliff climbing skills on this cliff.

Riding my bike down this hill was a bit terrifying. I'm sure that's not the first thing I ever did on my bike, but it's the first thing I remember. The babysitter is who taught me to ride my bike. We lived in the same neighborhood as the girl who baby-sat for us. I'm not sure how much older she was than I am. She's on Facebook, so I might be able to find out, but I'm just writing right now.

So, the hill. On a bike. What I remember is this. I was on my bike near our driveway, where the hill started to slope down. Somehow, I began going downhill. Faster! Faster! At the bottom of the hill,  the road teed into another road. I blew through the stop sign, did not brake, did not turn, and tumbled into the grass across the street.

I don't remember being stymied by this.

## Baseball

My younger brother and I played baseball with my dad. I wanted to be Ryne Sandberg. My brother wanted to be the highlights reel. When I hit the ball, I ran. When he hit the ball, he ran. Then he went back to home plate and called "Instant Replay!" Now we had to repeat the action, preferably in slow motion. This definitely happened before he turned 5. Now that I have had a 5 year old, and tried to play baseball with him, I can understand how patient my dad needed to be.

## Chicken Pox

Around when I was 7 (or earlier), I got chicken pox. I was lucky enough to get chicken pox again when I was 12. So maybe what I got when I was 7 was some other kind of pox? I don't know. It was itchy, and I had something like 5 spots.

## Washington, DC

We took a lot of trips when I was growing up. We lived near Chicago. My mom's family lived mostly near Sheboygan. One of her sisters lived in Hawaii! My uncle lived near Albany. And my parents had lived in California for a long time. That alone added up to a lot of travel. But we took trips to see other things, too. For example, when I was 7 or so (seems like I did a lot when I was 7), we went to Washington, DC.

It wasn't just us who went. We took the babysitter, too. I'm not sure if we took her for fun or if we took her so my parents could go out for dinner by themselves. Or maybe they wanted their own hotel room? None of that mattered to me then. What I remember is sitting in the back seat of the car with my brother on one side, me on the other, and the babysitter in the middle.

And she got sick. I remember a box of tissues. The back seat was buried with crumpled tissues. She showed us a magic trick with tissues. She tore one to shreds, stuffed it into her fist, and pulled out... a whole tissue! How did she do that?!?

---

I think that's all for now. I didn't get very close to 11. I guess this was "7".
