---
layout: post
title: Grape Juice from Nashville
---

I've been wanting to get into the habit of blogging more, and not necessarily all about tech. I want to keep talking about that, but that's not all there is to life. In the past couple of months, I've wanted to write about our trip to see be in the 99.9% part of the eclipse's path and about Mike McHargue's workshop on connecting the church to the next generation. The problem that I have is that I don't quite have enough time where I'm sitting down and have spare brain cycles to write out something. Well, occasionally I do, when I'm going to talk about something. So that's what we have here. Every month or two, Lisa and I lead worship and I have a chance to get semi-liturgical on our conservative non-denominational protestant church. Today, I shared the following as a communion meditation.

---

It’s time for communion. To get us started, I’m sharing what we like to call a communion meditation. In a few moments, the ushers will pass the trays. The first tray has crackers. The second has cups of grape juice. They’re reminders of the bread and wine that Jesus passed around at the last supper as symbols of his body and blood. When the trays get to you, you can eat and drink immediately or take and hold onto the elements for a little bit. That’s how we do it here.

Communion hasn’t always looked like this for me. I grew up going to an episcopalian church. The entire worship service there was much more liturgical, and communion is no exception. While preparing for communion there, Paul’s words to the Corinthians are read every week. On the night before he died for us, our Lord Jesus Christ took bread; and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and gave it to his disciples, and said, “Take, eat: This is my Body, which is given for you. Do this for the remembrance of me.” That form of communion liturgy is of course still going on today.

Communion hasn’t always looked like ours. Take for example, grape juice. We use grape juice in place of wine. As it turns out, if you store grape juice at room temperature, it ferments into wine in less than a month. Refrigerators were invented in 1913. So, before 1913, grape juice was wine, and wine is what was available for communion. However, in the 19th century, America was going through lots of social changes, and alcoholism was … not making things any better. The temperance movement started, and churches started looking for alternatives to wine. Some churches squeezed grapes during the week, which works when grapes are in season. Some churches used water in place of wine, and for biblical justification they looked to the story of the wedding at Cana in John 2. I think it’s interesting that this story of a reluctant miracle, a story that’s pretty disconnected from the story of the last supper, got interpreted to apply to the last supper, because of the cultural context of the 19th century. Anyway, in 1868, a Methodist communion steward and dentist named Thomas Welch vowed that he would provide his congregation with an alternative to wine. A year later, he applied Louis Pasteur’s scientific breakthroughs to grape juice, and voila, the world now had “Dr. Welch’s Unfermented Wine”. It didn’t take off immediately, but by 1890 or 1900 it did. So we have social upheaval of the 19th century to thank for grape juice, including its use for communion.

Going back to the middle ages, the dominant view was that communion was a necessary sacrament for continuing your salvation. Every week, you came to church, confessed your sins from the week, and took communion. If, for some reason, you didn’t take communion, you were on dangerous spiritual ground. Being excommunicated today sounds like you got kicked out of a club. Then, it would have seemed much more serious.

Going back really far in time, back to the early days in the church, what I read in Acts and 1 Cor makes it sound like communion was something between Thanksgiving dinner and a potluck. Or maybe like a weekly passover pitch-in.

I’m sure this only scratches the surface of the different ways that communion has been interpreted and practiced. Lots of variety. Is one of them the Right Way? Probably not, we weren’t given a list of steps to follow. Sure, there might be some wrong ways to do it. But if you’re sincerely taking time out to remember Jesus’s death and resurrection, you’re probably doing it right.
